# Reservoir Operations Troubleshooting #

**Situation**: On-channel reservoir will not fill to capacity.

1. Check if there are sufficient storage rights (\*.rer) to meet the reservoir capacity, as defined in the 
reservoir station (\*.res) file.
2. Review the reservoir target file (\*.tar) to see if the monthly target equals the reservoir capacity set 
in reservoir structure (\*.res) file.
3. Check if the storage right is assigned to the correct accounts in the reservoir rights file (\*.rer).
4. Check if there is sufficient physically and legally available flow available to the reservoir. 
	* Review the River Balance information in the direct diversion summary output file (\*.xdd), specifically 
	reviewing River Inflow, Reach Gain, Available Flow, and Control Location at the reservoir. 
	* If the reservoir is located at the top of a tributary, make sure that natural flow has been distributed 
	up to the reservoir.
	* If there is physical flow but no available flow, there is a downstream calling right that is causing the 
	reservoir to bypass the physical flow in the river to meet the downstream demand.

**Situation**: Diversion demand is not being fully satisfied from supplemental storage supplies.

1. Check if reservoir account(s) specified as source(s) in the operating rule file (\*.opr) has water in storage 
available for release; review reservoir contents for each account in the reservoir summary file (\*.xre).
2. If the release is via exchange, check if exchange potential is limiting the released amount. Review the River 
Balance information in the direct diversion summary output file (\*.xdd) for each of the intervening structures.
3. Check if the diversion demand capacity in the direct diversion station file (\*.dds) is limiting additional 
releases from being diverted, particularly if the releases are being made via an operating rule with a carrier.
4. Make sure the River Inflow to reservoir (River Inflow (+) column in \*.xre file) is not equal to or greater 
than the reservoir maximum release rate (`FloMax`) assigned in the reservoir station (\*.res) file, thus limiting 
releases due to downstream channel capacity.
