# Well Operational Considerations #

1. Wells may increase the water supply available at the river at a 
given time step if well return flows exceed the stream depletion. 
StateMod checks for such a condition and re-operates to allow senior 
ditches to benefit from the additional water supply. 
2. Wells may require two or more delay patterns to represent the delay 
associated with return flows and depletions. The data for both types of 
delays are specified in the unit response file (\*.dly or \*.urm). When 
the sum of return flows to the river is less than 100%, the balance is 
treated as a loss (e.g evaporation or phreatophytes). Similarly when the 
sum of depletions to the river is less than 100%, the balance is assumed 
to come from ground water storage.
3. Wells may cause river flows to go negative when the well’s estimated 
depletion to the river exceeds the streamflow. StateMod treats such an 
occurrence as an indication that pumping impacts have depleted ground 
water storage rather than the stream flow. Under such a case, StateMod 
allows the pumping to occur and accounts for the source of water as originating 
from ground water storage. This water is presented in the column `From/To GW Stor` 
for each river node in the diversion summary output (\*.xdd) and for the 
whole basin in the water budget report (\*.xwb). Note the quantity of water 
supplied by ground water storage in a simulation time period is taken out of 
the stream the next time period before any water allocation occurs. The control 
file (\*.ctl) variable `iwell = 2 or 3` allows the repayment of this water to be 
limited to a maximum amount to represent a stream ground water system that are 
disconnected. Also, since data for this term is generally not observed, baseflow 
calculations may be influenced by this lack of data. 
4. Well information is presented in four columns of the diversion summary 
report (\*.xdd). The column titled `From Well` describes the total amount of 
water pumped and made available to a diversion. The column titled `Well Depletion` 
represents the impact of a previous months pumping on the river. The column titled 
`To/From GW Stor` was described above. The column titled `River by Well` represents 
the impact of the current months pumping on the river. The `Well Depletion` and 
`River by Well` data are separated because the impact of a previous months pumping 
on the river influences the water supply available to all users before any 
diversions occur while the impact of the current months pumping impacts water 
rights that are junior to the well only. Note by definition, a well structure 
that is not tied to a diversion has no data under the column `From Well`. However, 
the columns titled `Well Depletion` and `River by Well` include the impact of all 
well pumping on the river. 
