# Reach Reporting #

Selected State Model reports have the capability to summarize results by stream reach including the diversion 
comparison (\*.xdc), the stream comparison (\*.xsc), the reservoir comparison (\*.xrc), and the well comparison (\*.xwc). 
In addition a water budget by reach is automatically generated whenever a water budget (\*.xwb) is generated. To facilitate 
reach processing the following are noted:

* As defined herein, a stream reach is simply an aggregation of structures located within a geographic region of the network.  
* As described in [Section 4.53](../InputDescription/453.md) the preliminary Reach Data file contains two components; Reach Data and Node Data. 
Reach data is used to define how one stream reach is connected to another. Node data is used to assign a stream (river) node to a stream reach.
* To eliminate the need to build a Reach Data file, a preliminary one (\*.xrh) is generated by the check option (`-check`) for 
every structure in the system when a river gage (\*.rig) file is provided (see [Section 4.4.1](../InputDescription/441.md)). If a river gage (\*.rig) file is 
not provided the Check option assigns one to define preliminary stream reaches. If one is not provided no reach data is generated.
* The default name for the preliminary file created by the check option is \*.xrh. This preliminary file is commonly revised in 
an editor to reassign the Reach Data connectivity. In addition sub reaches may be defined to represent structures not bounded 
by a stream gage. After editing, the Reach Data file is typically renamed to \*.rch to avoid it being overwritten every time a 
new check run is made.
