# Additional Output Reports #

The Standard Report (`-xst`) produces four files; the Demand Summary File (\*.xdd), the Reservoir Summary File (\*.xre), the Instream Reach Summary File (\*.xir), the Well Summary File (\*.xwe), and the Operation Right Summary File (\*.xop). These are the same files produced by the simulate option and are described above. 

The Node Accounting Report (`-xna`) produces two files: the Detailed Node Accounting (\*.xnm) file and Summary Node Accounting (\*.xna) file. Both provide the same results as the standard report but are sorted by the stream order provided in the river network file (\*.rin). The detailed node accounting file provided data for every month of the study period while the summary provides an annual average. 

The Diversion Graph Report (`-xdg`) provides the same data presented in the diversion and stream gage summary report but it is formatted for easy graphing by a spreadsheet or other plotting package (e.g. XMGR for the workstation). 

The Reservoir Graph Report (`-xrg`) provides the same data presented in the reservoir summary report but it is formatted for easy graphing by a spreadsheet or other plotting package (e.g. XMGR for the workstation). 

The Well Graph Report (`-xwg`) provides the same data presented in the well summary report but it is formatted for easy graphing by a spreadsheet or other plotting package (e.g. XMGR for the workstation). 

The Diversion Comparison Report (`-xdc`) compares the total diversion estimated by the model to the gaged record if available in the historic diversion file (\*.ddh). Its output file is named \*.xdc. If the user specifies `–Report` as a secondary parameter when executing this option (e.g. `–report` `–xdc` `–Report`) a Diversion Comparison Summary Report (\*.xdc) is generated for each Reach specified in the Reach Data (\*.rch) file.

The Reservoir Comparison Report (`-xrc`) compares the end of month contents estimated by the model to the gaged record if available in the historic end of month content file (\*.eom).

The Well Comparison Report (`-xwc`) compares the total well pumping estimated by the model to the gaged record if available in the historic well pumping file (\*.weh). Its output file is named \*.xwc. If the user specifies `–Report` as a secondary parameter when executing this option (e.g. `–report` `–xwc` `–Report`) a Well Comparison Summary Report (\*.xwc) is generated for each Reach specified in the Reach Data (\*.rch) file.

The Stream Comparison Report (`-xsc`) compares the total diversion estimated by the model to the gaged record if available in the historic streamflow file (\*.xsc). Its output file is named \*.xsc. If the user specifies `–Report` as a secondary parameter when executing this option (e.g. `–report` `–xsc` `–Report`) a Stream Comparison Summary Report (\*.xsc) is generated for each Reach specified in the Reach Data (\*.rch) file.

The Consumptive Use Water Supply Report (`-xcu`) provides four output files; \*.xcu, \*.xsu, \*.xsh and \*.xwd. The CU summary (\*.xcu) presents the total diversion by each structure in a special format required by the CRDSS consumptive use model. The supply summary (\*.xsu) presents the total supply to each structure. The shortage summary (\*.xsh) presents the shortage associated with each structure. The water district summary (\*.xwd) presents the total diversion for each Reach specified in the Reach Data (\*.rch) file.

The River Data Summary Report (`-xrx`) provides a summary of data provided by river node. 
The Selected Parameter Report (`-xsp`) provides a printout of a selected parameter (e.g. Total_Diversion) available to the standard diversion (\*.xdd), reservoir (\*.xre) and well (\*.xwe) output files. It reads the Output Request file (\*.out) to determine the type of output (e.g. Diversion, InstreamFlow, StreamGage, Reservoir or Well), parameter (e.g. Total_Diversion) and ID to print. It creates two output files with the same data in a different format; the output formatted into a matrix is named \*.xsp while the output formatted into a column is named \*.xs2. Note to get a list of parameters for each data type, enter a dummy variable under parameter type (e.g. `x`) and review the log file.

The Daily Selected Parameter Report (`-xds`) provides a printout of a selected parameter (e.g. Total_Diversion) available to the standard daily diversion (\*.xdy), reservoir (\*.xry) and well (\*.xwy) output files. It reads the Output Request file (\*.out) to determine the type of output (e.g. diversion), parameter (e.g. Total_Diversion) and ID to print. It creates two output files with the same data in a different format; the output formatted into a matrix is named \*.xds while the output formatted into a column is named \*.xd2. Note to get a list of parameters for each data type (diversion, stream, instream flow, reservoir or well) enter a dummy variable under parameter type (e.g. `x`) and review the log file.
The Well to Plan Summary (`-xwp`) provides a summary of every well structure and the augmentation plans, if any, associated with a well structure. 

The Log File (\*.log) contains a log of the report module's operation. The log file contains important information for the user; it is recommended the user review the log file and understand and/or address if necessary any warnings after each model execution.  

The control file contains a variable named ichk that is used to obtain detailed results. [Section 4.2](../Input Description/42.md) provides a description of these detailed report options. 
