# Reach Data File (*.rch) #

The Reach Data file is used to summarize diversion comparison, well comparison, and Consumptive Use reports 
by reach when the Report option (`-report`) is specified. To eliminate the need to build a Reach Data file, a 
preliminary one (\*.xrh) is generated by the check option (`-check`) for every diversion and well in the system. 
This preliminary Reach Data file contains two main components: Reach Data and Node Data. The following are noted:

* Reach data is used to define how one stream reach is connected to another.
* Node data is used to assigned a stream (river) node to a stream reach.
* The default name for the preliminary file created by the check option is \*.xrh. This preliminary file is commonly revised in an editor to reassign the Reach Data connectivity. In addition sub reaches may be defined to represent structures not bounded by a stream gage. After editing the Reach Data file is typically renamed to \*.rch to avoid it being overwritten every time a new check run is made.
* If a river gage (\*.rig) file is provided it is used by the Check option to define stream reaches. If one is not provided the Check optin uses data in the historic stream file (\*.rih) to identify stream reaches. As described, this preliminary definition of steram reaches may be redefined by the user in an editor.  
* The file format is free. Therefore names like My Name should be entered as a single string with a hyphen (e.g. My_Name) or enclosed in double quotes (e.g. “My Name”).

| Row-data							| Variable						| Description 								|				
| ------------------				| --------------------			| --------									|
| 1	 								| ctype							| Free Format
| 1-1								| ctype							| Reach_Data
| | | |
| 2-1								| RchIdR						| Reach ID
| 2-2								| RchNameR						| Reach Name
| 2-3								| RchTo							| Reach ID reach goes to 
| 2-4								| Rrec24						| Reach Name reach goes to
| 2-5								| StaID							| Stream ID reach goes to

Repeat row 2 for number of Stream Reaches.

| Row-data							| Variable						| Description
| ------------------				| --------------------			| --------									|
| 1									| ctype							| Free Format
| 1-1								| ctype							| Node_Data
| | | |
| 2-1								| StaID							| River Station ID
| 2-2								| RchNameX						| Reach Name
| 2-3								| iRchX							| Associated Reach #
| 2-4								| RchIDX						| Reach ID

Repeat row 2 for the number of Stream Nodes.
