# Daily Operations #

StateMod can operate on a monthly or daily time step. See [Section 7.17](../Standard Modeling Procedures/717.md) for additional discussion on how to add daily capability to a 
monthly model. For simplicity StateMod estimates every February has 28 days, therefore any daily data provided for February 29 in 
a leap year is ignored. The daily capability can be implemented directly or by building upon a monthly model. Constructing a monthly 
model first is recommended for the following reasons:

* The most difficult part of developing a basin model is understanding the system. By first developing a monthly model, the 
system operation can be investigated without burdening the user with the volume of information ultimately required for a daily model. 
* A daily model is typically developed to be able to simulate large and small flow events that occur within a monthly time step. 
Therefore, although daily streamflow data will be required, the user may want to estimate some of the other terms required for a 
daily analysis, such as diversion demands or reservoir targets, using a simplified approach. The ability to supply a simple distribution 
method to estimate daily data includes the following options: 
    1. Divide a monthly estimate by the number of days in a month or
    2. Set daily data to a monthly average or
    3. Use another gages daily distribution or
    4. Use a pattern developed by connecting the midpoints of monthly data (common for demand data) or
    5. Use a pattern developed by connecting the endpoints of monthly data (common for reservoir data).
* Daily baseflows may be developed directly as daily data or estimated from monthly baseflow estimates. 
* For the case where a structure has both daily and monthly data which do not equal, the distribution method described above specifies 
which controls. This approach provides maximum flexibility to assign daily data. 
* The routing of daily streamflows is accounted for by the gain and loss term that results from the base (natural) stream flows estimated 
by or provided to the model. 
* Routing of reservoir releases are estimated to occur instantaneously in StateMod.  The routing of reservoir releases is not included 
because:
    1. StateMod is a primarily a planning model, 
    2. The additional detail required to properly implement reservoir releases with a 
travel time component is not justified since the system would have to include some kind of forecasting to know a reservoir release is required 
before a reservoir demand occurs and 
    3. The volume of water potentially delivered early by ignoring a reservoir's travel time is offset 
by the potential over release that occurs after the demand is satisfied.  
