# Changed Water Right Plan Structure #

A Plan Type 13 – Changed Water Right Plan structure is used to temporarily divert and store a water right that 
has been changed for uses other than its historical use. This commonly occurs when water users purchase a portion 
of a senior water right historically used for irrigation, change the use in Water Court, and then use the changed 
water rights for other uses such as municipal, industrial, or augmentation. If the changed water right is to be 
divided among more than one user, as shown in the example schematic above, then an overall plan is needed to store 
the total changed portion, and individual plans are needed for each user for a total of three plans. If more than 
one water right is changed at the same source location, they can be put into the same overall plan only if all the 
water rights can be split to individual user plans using the same percentages and if the terms and conditions 
applied when the plans release the water to the end uses are the same. 

As the changed water right plan operations are all accounted for at the source water right headgate (administrative) 
location, all the plans must be modeled off-channel on a “mock” tributary so they do not affect exchange potential 
or other operations on the mainstem. Note that the changed water rights are only available for use in the same time 
step they are diverted and must be “spilled” back to the river if they are not used.

The user should keep in mind that the changed water rights plan “demand” is the portion of the water that is changed; 
regardless if there is a final demand for the changed water when the water is released. For example, if 100 cfs is 
available under the full water right, and 50 percent of the ditch has been changed, then 50 cfs will be stored in 
the plan structure and the remaining 50 cfs will go towards meeting the headgate demand. Even if the 50 cfs that 
was stored in the plan is not used and is ultimately spilled back to the river, and the headgate demand is unmet, 
the spilled water will not go to meet the headgate demand. If the changed water can be used to meet the headgate 
demand, it is recommended the user set up a separate operating rule to release from the changed water rights plan 
to the headgate demand. Additionally, if there is no headgate demand, then all of the water right must be put into 
the plan.

The operating rule used to temporarily store water in the changed water rights plan (Type 26) does not limit the 
changed water by the capacity of the source water right location; this limitation is performed when the water is 
released from the plan. This ensures that capacity is not “used” with water that was only temporarily stored, and 
may not be ultimately used to meet demand. Similar logic can be applied to implementing Terms and Conditions associated 
with the historical use of the water, generally outlined in the change of use decree. The Terms and Conditions 
operations, which ultimately generate a plan demand, should be based only on the water that is actually released and 
used to meet a demand, not based on the water stored in the plan. Therefore it is recommended the user include Terms 
and Conditions in the plan release operations. See the following [Releases from a Changed Water Right Plan](../StandardModelingProcedures/7112.md) section for 
more information on limiting the changed water right by the source diversion structure’s capacity and implementing 
Terms and Conditions.

1. Open the network (\*.net) in StateDMI, navigate to the source water right headgate, and right-click to 
`Add an Upstream Location`. Create a new tributary, enter the appropriate structure information, and designate 
the structure type as a plan. 
	* If more than one changed water rights plan will be required to model the operations, as shown in the example 
	schematic above, add the additional plan structures on the mock tributary in this step.
2. Recreate the river network file (\*.rin) to reflect the additional structure.
3. In the plan file (\*.pln), include the changed water right plan as a Type 13 Plan and include the appropriate 
parameter information. See [Section 4](../InputDescription/40.md) for more discussion on the information in and format of this file.
4. In the operating rule (\*.opr) file, include a Changed Water Right Operating Rule (Type 26) to divert each water 
right into a changed water right plan. 
	* The source is the changed water right ID and the destination is the changed water right plan.
	* Set the priority to be the same as the priority of the source water right in the diversion rights (\*.ddr) file.  
	* Set the monthly and annual limitations; generally based on limits on the changed right by the decree.
	* Set the percent of the water right that is changed and therefore stored in the plan. If the portion of the 
	water right to be stored in the plan is not 100 percent, the remaining amount is used to meet any demand at 
	the source water right headgate. The Type 26 turns off the water right so it cannot be used in other operating 
	rules.
	* The Type 26 operating rule operates only once per time step (i.e. does not re-operate).
5. If more than one changed water right plan is necessary, in the operating rule (\*.opr) file, include a Multiple 
Plan Ownership Operating Rule (Type 46) to split the overall changed water right plan (as referenced as the 
destination in the Type 26 rule) into multiple owner’s plans. 
	* The split percentages to the individual users’ changed water rights plan must add up to 100 percent.
	* Set the priority to be just junior to the Type 26 operating rule.
