# Augmentation Station Modeling #

StateMod has the ability to simulate an Augmentation Station, which is a structure that generally accounts 
for and returns a portion or all of a changed water right on a ditch directly to the river for subsequent 
re-diversion. These operations are recommended when the augmentation station is down ditch from the headgate 
(i.e. changed water isn’t available directly at the headgate location) and the changed water right may experience 
additional canal losses, or additional accounting (e.g. multiple users) at the specific augmentation station location 
is desired. Augmentation stations can be simulated in StateMod using a Direct Plan/Reservoir Release Operating Rule 
(Type 27) or Exchange Plan/Release Operating Rule (Type 28), depending on the location of the destination, to release 
water from a changed water right plan associated with the ditch where the augmentation station is located to a demand. 

The following should be noted when including the Type 27/28 operating rules:

* It is recommended that an “Other” node be included in the network diagram to represent the physical location where the 
augmentation station returns to the river. Note that if the augmentation station has been assigned a WDID, it is recommended 
this be the “Other” node model ID. 
* If the water measured at the augmentation station will meet an on-channel demand, such as a return flow obligation, 
augmentation requirement, or a municipal/industrial demand, then a minimum of two intervening structures need to be included 
in the operating rule.
	* The first intervening structure, designated as a Carrier structure type in the operating rule, is the structure ID associated 
with the changed water right so the release can be accounted for by the capacity. The Carrier structure can include a loss factor 
if appropriate.
	* The second intervening structure, designated as a Return structure in the operating rule, is the augmentation station ID to 
indicate where the water returns to the river. Note that losses cannot be designated with Return structure types.
	* The destination of the operating rule is the on-channel demand structure ID.
* If the water measured at the augmentation station will meet an off-channel demand, such as a reservoir or municipal/industrial 
demand, then a minimum of three intervening structures needs to be included in the operating rule.
	* The first intervening structure, designated as a Carrier structure type in the operating rule, is the structure ID associated 
with the changed water right so the release can be accounted for by the capacity. The Carrier structure can include a loss factor 
if appropriate.
	* The second intervening structure, designated as a Return structure in the operating rule, is the augmentation station ID to 
indicate where the water returns to the river. Note that losses cannot be designated with Return structure types.
	* The third intervening structure, designated as a Carrier structure type in the operating rule, is the structure used to carry 
the off-channel demand and can include a loss factor if appropriate.
	* The destination of the operating rule is the off-channel demand structure ID.
* When StateMod detects the Return structure, it shepherds any water delivered to the river to the destination or another carrier.
