# Add a Diversion Structure #

The following approach assumes that the added diversion structure is a “future” structure and not an actual diversion with a valid model identifier (WDID) in HydroBase. If the added structure is in HydroBase, create the input files without set commands first and identify missing information prior to setting input data.

1. Open the network (\*.net) in StateDMI, navigate to the appropriate location, and right-click to *Add an Upstream Location*. 
Enter the appropriate information and designate the structure type as either diversion (D) or diversion/well (DW).
	* Note that if the structure type is designated as DW, appropriate well files must be included in the scenario.
	* Note if a diversion structure is added as a headwater node, it must be made a baseflow node and have a natural 
flow distribution.
2. Recreate the river network file (\*.rin) to reflect the additional structure.
3. Add the structure to the diversion station file (\*.dds) using the StateDMI commands:
	* Set the structure capacity in CFS.
	* Set the structure system efficiency (annual or monthly efficiency values).
	* Set the demand and use types (see Section 4 for more discussion).
	* Set the return flow locations and patterns; must reference the delay patterns provided in the delay file 
(\*.dly or \*.urm).
4. Add water rights to the diversion right file (\*.ddr) using the StateDMI commands:
	* Set the water right ID as the structure ID with a numeric suffix for each right.
	* Set the water right priority (administration number) and amount in CFS.
5. Add the structure’s demand to the direct flow demand file (\*.ddm) using the StateDMI commands.
	* Set the monthly demand or read in an external StateMod formatted file (*.stm) with the demand.
6. Confirm the revised diversion files (\*.dds, \*.ddr, \*.ddm) are reflected in the response file (\*.rsp).
7. Simulate the model. 
8. Review the direct diversion summary output file (\*.xdd) and the structure summary output file (\*.xss) for 
output information on the new diversion structure. 
