# Add a Reservoir #

The following approach assumes that the added reservoir is a “future” structure and not an actual reservoir with a 
valid model identifier (WDID) in HydroBase. If the added structure is in HydroBase, create the input files without 
set commands first and identify missing information prior to setting input data.

1.	Open the network (\*.net) in StateDMI, navigate to the appropriate location, and right-click to *Add an Upstream Location*. 
Enter the appropriate information and designate the structure type as a reservoir.
	* Note if a reservoir is added as a headwater node, it must be made a baseflow node and have a natural flow distribution.
2.	Recreate the river network file (\*.rin) to reflect the additional structure.
3.	Add the structure to the reservoir station file (\*.res) using the StateDMI commands:
	* Set the total capacity of the reservoir in AF.
	* Set individual accounts (e.g. users in the reservoirs or an inactive pool), their respective capacities, and their 
starting volumes.
	* Set the reservoir outlet capacity for off-channel reservoirs or downstream river channel capacity for on-channel 
reservoirs in CFS.
	* Set the net evaporation station; must reference the evaporation station provided in the evaporation file (*.eva).
	* Set the area/capacity/seepage table.
4.	Add water rights to the reservoir right file (\*.rer) using the StateDMI commands:
	* Set the water right ID as the structure ID with a numeric suffix for each right.
	* Set the water right priority (administration number) and amount in AF.
	* Set the accounts that can be filled with the water rights and whether it is a first-fill or refill right.
5.	Add the structure’s demand to the reservoir target file (\*.tar) using the TSTool commands.
	* Set the monthly reservoir minimum and maximum targets (generally zero and the reservoir capacity) or read in an 
external StateMod formatted file (\*.stm) with the capacity target in AF.
6.	Confirm the revised diversion files (\*.res, \*.rer, \*.tar) are reflected in the response file (\*.rsp).
7.	Simulate the model.
8.	Review the reservoir summary output file (\*.xre) for output information on the new reservoir.
