# Demand Considerations #

StateMod allows demands to be set at the headgate or well structure as an irrigation water requirement at the 
irrigated land by month or by year (12 values repeated each year). The following are noted. 

1. When a total demand is provided for a direct diversion structure the variable `idvcom` of the direct diversion 
station file (\*.dds) should be set to 1 for monthly data and 2 for annual data. Similarly for a well structure 
the variable `idvcomw` of the well station file (\*.wes) should be set to 1 for monthly data and 2 for annual data 
(annual data option for wells is reserved but not yet active). By providing total demand data, StateMod recognizes 
that a structures demand includes inefficiencies associated with conveyance and on-farm irrigation practices. The 
fate of inefficient water is controlled by the return flow data provided. This standard approach is recommended when 
wells are not part of an analysis. 
2. When an irrigation water requirement is provided for a direct diversion structure the variable `idvcom` of the direct 
diversion station file (\*.dds) should be set to 3 for monthly data and 4 for annual data. Similarly for a well structure 
the variable `idvcomw` of the well station file (\*.wes) should be set to 3 for monthly data and 4 for annual data (annual 
data option for wells is reserved but not yet active). By providing an irrigation water requirement as demand data, StateMod 
recognizes that a structure's demand does not includes losses associated with conveyance and on farm irrigation practices. 
Therefore these adjustments are done within StateMod using the efficiency data provided in the direct diversion station file 
(\*.dds) and the well station file (\*.wes). The fate of inefficient water is controlled by the return flow data provided. This 
approach is recommended when wells are part of an analysis since the system efficiency associated with surface water and ground 
water are often significantly different. 
3. When co-mingled supplies (surface and ground water sources) are used to meet a common demand, the control variable `icondem` 
of the control file (\*.ctl) controls how demand data are provided to and treated by StateMod. 
	* **Historical Demand Approach**. Set `icondem = 1` to indicate surface water demands are provided in the diversion demand file 
(\*.ddm), well demands are provided in the well demand file (\*.wem) and no addition to determine a total structure demand occurs. 
This means that any surface water shortages cannot be supplied by ground water and vice versa. Also, the diversion and well 
station demand type variables (`idvcom` and `idvcomw`) are typically set to 1 or 3 which means monthly total demands (1) or monthly 
Irrigation Water Requirement demands (3) will be provided. Note this option is typically used during a historical model 
calibration when historical diversions and pumping are known or estimated from a StateCU scenario.
	* **Historical Sum Demand Approach**. Set `icondem = 2` to indicate surface water demands are provided in the diversion demand file 
(\*.ddm), well demands are provided in the well demand file (\*.wem) and they are added together to determine a total structure 
demand. This means that any surface water shortages for a structure can be supplied by ground water and vice versa. The priority 
of the surface and ground water rights (limited by water right, capacity, etc.) dictates which source (surface water or ground 
water) will try to supply water. Also, the diversion and well station demand type variables (`idvcom` and `idvcomw`) are typically 
set to 1 or 3 which means monthly total demands (1) or monthly irrigation water requirement demands (3) will be provided in the 
monthly well demand file (\*.wem). This option is typically used during calibration to quantify the impact of what occurs when 
priorities dictate the water supply source. 
	* **Structure Demand Approach**. Set `icondem = 3` to indicate one demand is provided for structures served by both surface 
and ground water in the direct diversion demand file (\*.ddm). For well only lands demand is provided in the well demand 
file (\*.wem). Similar to when `icondem = 2`, this means that any surface water shortages for a structure can be supplied by 
ground water and vice versa. The priority of the surface and ground water rights (limited by water right, capacity, etc.) 
dictates which source (surface water or ground water) will try to supply water. Also, the well station demand type variable 
(`idvcomw`) is typically set to 6 indicating demands will be provided in the direct diversion demand file (\*.ddm) and no demand 
data are expected in the monthly well demand file for co-mingled structures. The diversion station demand type variable 
(`idivcom`) dictates if the data provided in the monthly demand file (\*.ddm) is total demand or irrigation water requirement. 
This option is typically used during calibration and a baseline run when a structure's total demand is known but the mixture 
of surface water and ground water supplies is not. 
	* **Supply Demand Approach**. Set `icondem = 4` to indicate data are provided in the same way as when `icondem = 3` (e.g. for 
co-mingled structures one demand is provided in the direct diversion demand file(s) (\*.ddm) and for well only lands demand 
is provided in the well demand file (\*.wem)). This method requires the variable efficiency method be operational (control 
variable `ieffmax = 1`). It allows surface water and ground water demands to operate somewhat independently. Like all demand 
options surface and ground water use under the Supply Demand Approach are dictated by the priority of each source and when 
diversion or pumping occurs the structures CIR is reduced as a function of the efficiency of the supply source. The Supply 
Demand Approach allows surface water to be diverted up to the user-supplied demand even if there is no CIR. Ground water is 
only allowed to pump when a CIR exists. This option is typically used during a calculated model calibration and a baseline 
run to better match historic operations. Its net effect is to 1. Divert surface water up to the user specified demand when 
available and in priority regardless of how efficient or inefficient that surface water will be used, and 2. Pump ground 
water only when there is a CIR. Note it operates most effectively in conjunction with the sprinkler option which allows a 
structure to pump preferentially on lands with sprinklers but still divert surface water to meet both CIR and recharge 
demands. 
	* **Decreed Demand Approach**. Set `icondem = 5` to indicate data are provided in the same way as when `icondem = 3 or 4` 
(e.g. for structures with both a surface and ground water supply one demand is provided in the direct diversion demand 
file(s) (\*.ddm) and for well only lands demand is provided in the well demand file (\*.wem). This method requires the 
variable efficiency method be operational (control variable `ieffmax = 1`) and operates surface and ground water supplies 
exactly the same as when `icondem = 4`. In addition, the Decreed Demand Approach overrides demand data provided for structures 
with both surface and ground water supplies to equal the total of their surface water decrees if there is a CIR in that 
time step. Like the Supply Demand Approach, the Decreed Demand Approach 1. Allows surface water to be diverted up to the 
user-supplied demand (water rights) even if there is no CIR and 2. Allows ground water to be pumped only when a CIR exists. 
This option is typically used during a calculated model calibration and a baseline run to better match historic operations. 
Note it operates most effectively in conjunction with the sprinkler option which allows a structure to pump preferentially 
on lands with sprinklers but still divert surface water to meet both CIR and recharge demands.

Note that the Supply Demand Approach (`icondem = 4`) and Decreed Demand Approach (`icondem = 5`) could be extended to assist in 
determining when to use reservoir supplies (i.e. only make a reservoir release if a CIR exists). 

>**Modeling Tip:**
>* _Co-mingled demand options are complex and all functionality as not been thoroughly tested or vetted; it is up to the user to verify these operations are simulation as desired._