# How to Model Well Operations #

This section provides a recommended approach on how to model typical well operations using 
the standard modeling approaches used to develop CDSS models. In general, these approaches 
focus on representing a group of wells that provide either the full or supplemental irrigation 
supply. Although single wells can be represented, it is recommended they be aggregated to 
collectively supply a co-mingled irrigation demand or ground water only demand. When aggregated, 
they are represented in the model either tied to an existing direct diversion structure ID or 
tied to a ground water only aggregate. Single wells modeled explicitly are only recommended if 
they represent augmentation or recharge wells (see the [How to Model Augmentation Plans](../StandardModelingProcedures/710.md) 
section below). 

Sections in this StateMod documentation discuss modeling more complex well operations than discussed 
in this section; however they have not be thoroughly tested or vetted. This is particularly applicable 
to the different ways a ground water demand can be included in the model, as indicated by the `icondem` 
parameter in the control (\*.ctl) file. It is recommended the user implement the historical demand 
approach (`icondem = 1`), in which demands for structures using surface water and ground water 
demands are provided in separate demand files (e.g. \*.ddm and \*.wem) and are not added together 
(i.e. surface water shortages cannot be supplied by ground water and vice versa). In any scenario, 
it is up to the user to make sure wells are operating as expected.