# Add Supplemental Wells #

Wells that provide a supplemental supply do not need to be represented 
by a specific structure on the river network, rather they can be tied to 
a co-mingled direct diversion structure using appropriate flags in the 
input files.  

1.	Open the response (\*.rsp) file in a text editor and include the files 
specific for well operations. 
	* Well_Station (\*.wes)
	* Well_Right (\*.wer)
	* Well_Demand_Monthly (\*.wem)
2.	Open the control (\*.ctl) file in a text editor and set the `iwell` 
parameter to 1 to indicate that wells will be included in the scenario 
and set the `icondem` parameter to 1 to designate the historical demand 
approach.
3.	Open the network (\*.net) in StateDMI, right click on the structure(s) 
to receive supplemental ground water supplies, and revise the structure 
type from `D` for diversion only structure to `DW` diversion. This indicates 
to the model which co-mingled structures will be provided well information. 
4.	Create a well station (\*.wes) file using the StateDMI commands:
	* Read in DW structures from the network diagram.
	* Set the total well capacity in CFS.
	* Set the well system efficiency (annual or monthly efficiency values). 
	* Set the demand and use types (see [Section 4](../InputDescription/40.md) 
	for more discussion).
	* Set the `idvcow2` parameter to be the co-mingled structure ID; StateMod 
	considers it to be a ground water only structure if this parameter is left as 
	N/A.
	* Set the depletion and return flow locations and patterns; must reference 
	the delay patterns provided in the delay file (\*.dly or \*.urm).
	* Depletion and accretion locations and patterns are typically the same, 
	unless a portion of non-consumed water returns more quickly via overland flow. 
5.	Create a well right (\*.wer) file using the StateDMI commands:
	* Use HydroBase to pull well rights for each well or set each well water 
	right; in both situations, tie each water right to the co-mingled structure ID.
	* Set the water right priority (administration number) and amount in CFS.
	* Review options to determine if a “turn-on” date is appropriate; note that 
	a “turn-off” date has not been implemented and once a well is turned on, it is 
	available to pump for the remainder of the model period.
6.	Create the well demand file (\*.wem) using the TSTool commands.
	* The well demand (\*.wem) file reflects the co-mingled supplemental supply, 
	and is indicated in this file under the co-mingled structure ID. 
	* Set the monthly demand or read in an external StateMod formatted file 
	(\*.stm) with the demand.
	* The well demand file only reflects the demand on ground water supplies, 
	and when using the historical pumping approach, cannot be met from surface water. 
	* For irrigation structures, the well demand (\*.wem) file generally reflects 
	estimated pumping output from StateCU for each co-mingled structure. These pumping 
	estimates are generally used for the historical well pumping (\*.weh) file for 
	baseflow calculations as well as simulation scenarios.
7.	Simulate the model. 
8.	Review the direct diversion summary output file (\*.xdd) , structure summary output 
file (\*.xss), and the well summary (\*.xwe) file for output information on the well 
structures. 
