# Add Groundwater Only Aggregate Structures #

Irrigated parcels that receive only ground water supply are generally grouped 
together regionally and are modeled as a ground water aggregate. Additionally, 
the ground water rights are grouped to provide a total supply to the ground water 
only structure. Unlike supplemental wells, ground water only aggregates need to 
be reflected explicitly in the model as a unique ground water aggregate structure.

1.	Open the response (\*.rsp) file in a text editor and include the files specific 
for well operations. 
	* Well_Station (\*.wes)
	* Well_Right (\*.wer)
	* Well_Demand_Monthly (\*.wem)
2.	Open the control (\*.ctl) file in a text editor and set the `iwell` parameter to 
1 to indicate that wells will be included in the scenario and set the `icondem` 
parameter to 1 to designate the historical demand approach.
3.	Open the network (\*.net) in StateDMI, navigate to the appropriate location, 
and right-click to Add an Upstream Location. Enter the appropriate information 
and designate the structure type as a well only structure (W). 
4.	Recreate the river network file (\*.rin) to reflect the additional structure(s).
5.	Create a well station (\*.wes) file using the StateDMI commands:
	* Read in W structures from the network diagram.
	* Set the total well capacity in CFS.
	* Set the well system efficiency (annual or monthly efficiency values). 
	* Set the demand and use types (see [Section 4](../InputDescription/40.md) for more discussion).
	* Set the `idvcow2` parameter to N/A.
	* Set the depletion and return flow locations and patterns; must reference the 
	delay patterns provided in the delay file (\*.dly or \*.urm).
		* Depletion and accretion locations and patterns are typically the same, unless 
		a portion of non-consumed water returns more quickly via overland flow. 
6.	Create a well right (\*.wer) file using the StateDMI commands:
	* Use HydroBase to pull well rights for each well or set each well water right; 
	in both situations, tie each water right to the ground water only structure ID.
	* Set the water right priority (administration number) and amount in CFS.
	* Review options to determine if a “turn-on” date is appropriate; note that a 
	“turn-off” date has not been implemented and once a well is turned on, it is 
	available to pump for the remainder of the model period.
7.	Create the well demand file (\*.wem) using the TSTool commands.
	* The well demand (\*.wem) file reflects the ground water only supply, and is 
	indicated in this file under the ground water structure ID. 
	* Set the monthly demand or read in an external StateMod formatted file (\*.stm) 
	with the demand.
	* For irrigation demand, the well demand (\*.wem) file generally reflects 
	estimated pumping output from StateCU for each ground water only structure. 
	These pumping estimates are generally used for the historical well pumping (\*.weh) 
	file for baseflow calculations as well as simulation scenarios.
8.	Simulate the model. 
9.	Review the direct diversion summary output file (\*.xdd), structure summary 
output file (\*.xss), and the well summary (\*.xwe) file for output information on 
the well structures. 
