# Big Picture Plot #

**Description**

The Big Picture Plot is generated by a FORTRAN program named `delplt.f`. `Delplt` post processes one or more output files from StateMod to generate 
a file which may be viewed as a table or provided to a plotting program to generate a 'Big Picture Plot'. Output from `Delplt` is always directed 
to the directory where the response file is located. It has the following capabilities:

* Single, Multiple, Difference, Diffx or Merge file results. 
	* The `Single` option will process the first file only.
	* The `Multiple` option will generate a matrix by ID for up to 5 files.
	* The `Difference` option will subtract data from two files (ID's in one file but not another will be treated as zeros).
	* The `Diffx` option will subtract data from two files (ID's in one file but not another will be ignored).
	* The `Merge` option will concatenate two or more files together.
* Operates on both StateMod ASCII and Binary output files. 
	* For ASCII diversion = \*.xdd, reservoir = \*.xre
	* For Binary diversion = \*.b43, reservoir = \*.b44
* Provides data for one of 20+/- parameters. 
* Prints 1, n, or all ID's. 
* Prints a specific year, year and month, or average. 
* For the Difference option only allows ID's found in one file not in another.

**Constraint:**

For the ID Option, the code checks for a -999 as an indicator that no more ID's will be provided. 

**Options:** 

The program is written in FORTRAN. It expects a command file which, if not provided, defaults to `delplt.in`. 
Following is the format of a command files: 

    Line 1: Run type (Single, Multiple, Difference, Merge or Help) 
    Line 2: File Name (can be ASCII (e.g. *.xdd) or Binary (e.g. *.b43))
    Line 3: Data Type
        Available data types are
           Diversion
           StreamGage (baseflows)
           Stream (same as StreamGage)
           Reservoir
           Instream
           StreamID (baseflows that begin with a USGS Identifier (e.g. 09… or 08…)
    Line 3: Parameter 
        Available Diversion or streamGage or streamID parameters:
           Total_Demand
           CU_Demand 
           From_River_by_Priority
           From_River_by_Storage 
           From_River_by_Exchange 
           From_Well    
           From_Carrier_by_Priority   
           From_Carrier_by_Storage    
           Carried_Water            
           From_Soil
           Total_Supply             
           Total_Short 
           CU_Short
           Consumptive_Use     
           To_Soil
           Total_Return             
           Loss
           Upstream_Inflow          
           Reach_Gain 
           Return_Flow 
           Well_Depletion
           To/From_GW_Storage            
           River_Inflow             
           River_Divert             
           River_by_Well
           River_Outflow 
           Available_Flow           							
         Available reservoir parameters: 
           Initial_Storage          
           River_Priority           
           River_Storage            
           River_Exchange           
           Carrier_Priority         
           Carrier_Storage          
           Total_Supply             
           Storage_Use              
           Storage_Exchange         
           Carrier_Use              
           Total_Release            
           Evap                    
           Seep_Spill               
           SimEOM                  
           Target_Limit             
           Fill_Limit
           River_Inflow
           Total_Release
           Total_Supply
           River_By_Well
           River_Outflow
    Line 4: Station ID (0=all, end with a -999)
    Line 5: Time (year, year and month, Ave)

**Example of a Difference Application**

```
#
# Multiple Files, same data type, same parameter, 
#   three years (1975, 1976 and average) 
#
#       Run Type: (Single, Multiple, Difference, Merge or Help):
# 
Difference
########################################
#
#       File:
gunnH.xdd
#
#       Data Type (Diversion, StreamGage, Reservoir, Instream, or StreamID)
Diversion
#
#       Parameter (same as SMGUI) or type -help
Total_Supply
#
#       ID (0=all, n=ID, end with a -999)
0
-999
#
#       Year or Ave (e.g. Ave or 1989 NOV)
Ave
#
########################################
#
#
#       File:
gunnC.b43
#
#       Data Type (Diversion, StreamGage, Reservoir, Instream, or StreamID)
Diversion
#
#       Parameter (same as SMGUI) or type -help
Total_Supply
#
#       ID (0=all, n=ID, end with a -999)
0
-999
#
#       Year or Ave (e.g. Ave or 1989 NOV)
Ave
#
-999 
```