# StateDMI #

The StateDMI provides the following assistance to the StateMod Model:

* Creates a river network (\*.rin) file that identifies relative location (upstream or downstream) of nodes in a model network.
* Creates a river station (\*.ris) file that describes the names and locations of nodes where baseflows are known.
* Creates a stream estimate station coefficient data (\*.rib) file with proration coefficients to calculate baseflows for nodes where baseflows are not known.
* Creates a reservoir structure (\*.res) file that describes the physical properties of each reservoir in the system.
* Creates a reservoir rights (\*.rer) file that contains data associated with reservoir storage rights.
* Creates an instream flow structure (\*.ifs) file that describes the physical properties of each instream flow in the system.
* Creates an instream flow rights (\*.ifr) file that contains data associated with instream flow water rights.
* Create an instream flow demand (\*.ifa) file that contains annual instream flow demands (12 monthly values) for each instream flow.
* Creates a well structure (\*.wes) file that describes the physical properties of each well in the system.
* Creates a well rights (\*.wer) file that contains data associated with ground water rights.
* Create a well demand (\*.wem) file that contains demands for well structures.
* Creates a direct diversion structure (\*.dds) file that describes the physical properties of each direct diversion in the system.
* Creates a direct diversion rights (\*.ddr) file that contains data associated with diversion water rights.
* Creates an historic diversion (\*.ddh) file by extracting diversion data from the CDSS database. 
* Fills missing historic diversion data from user supplied information. 
* Calculates the average system efficiency for irrigation structures based on historic diversion data and irrigation water requirement data 
provided by the CU model, StateCU (see below). 
* Creates a demand (\*.ddm) file based on calculated or user supplied efficiency data and farm irrigation water requirement data provided 
by the CU model, StateCU (see below). 
* Extracts irrigated acreage and crop mix (\*.cds) data from the CDSS database.

For a complete description of the StateDMI see [CDSS web site](https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdss/statedmi). 
